<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE book PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.1-Based Variant V1.0//EN" "dtd/kdex.dtd" [
  <!ENTITY kappname "&kwin4;">
  <!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE"> 
  <!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
  
 
]>

<book lang="&language;">
<bookinfo>
<title>Four Wins</title>

<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Martin</firstname>
<surname>Heni</surname>
<affiliation>
<address><email>martin@heni-online.de</email></address>
</affiliation>
</author>

<othercredit role="reviewer">
<firstname></firstname>
<surname></surname>
<contrib>Reviewer</contrib>
<affiliation><address><email></email></address></affiliation>
</othercredit>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->

</authorgroup>

<date>2000-12-12</date>
<releaseinfo>0.09.01</releaseinfo>

<abstract>
<para>This documentation describes &kwin4; version 0.9.1</para>
</abstract>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>kdegames</keyword>
<keyword>game</keyword>
<keyword>board</keyword>
<keyword>board game</keyword>
<keyword>four wins</keyword>
<keyword>four</keyword>
<keyword>four in a row</keyword>
<keyword>win4</keyword>
<keyword>kwin4</keyword>
<keyword>connect four</keyword>
<keyword>connect 4</keyword>
</keywordset>
</bookinfo>

<chapter id="overview">
<title>Overview</title>

<para>
Four wins is a game for two players.
Each player is represented by a color (yellow and red).
The goal of the game is to get four connected pieces of your
color into a row, column or any diagonal.
This is done by placing one of your pieces into any of the
seven columns. 
A piece will begin to fill a column from the bottom, i.e. it
will fall down until it reaches the ground level or another stone.
After a move is done it is the turn of the other player. This is
repeated until the game is over, i.e. one of the players has
four pieces in a row, column or diagonal or no more moves are possbile
because the board is filled.
</para>

</chapter>

<chapter id="Installation">
<title>Installation</title>

<sect1 id="getting-kwin4">
<title>How to obtain kwin4</title>

<para>
&kwin4; can be found in the package kdegames on
<ulink url="ftp://ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/">ftp://ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/</ulink>, 
the main ftp site of the KDE project.</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="Requirements">
<title>Requirements</title>

<para>
In order to successfully compile &kwin4;, you need KDE 2.0 </para>
<para>
All required libraries as well as &kwin4; itself can be found on
<ulink 
url="ftp://ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/">ftp://ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/</ulink>.</para>
</sect1>


<sect1 id="Compilation">
<title>Compilation and installation</title>

<para>In order to compile and install &kwin4; on your system, extract the package
and type the following commands in the base directory of the &kwin4;
distribution:</para>

<screen width="40">
<prompt>%</prompt> <userinput>cd kdegames</userinput>
<prompt>%</prompt> <userinput>./configure</userinput>
<prompt>%</prompt> <userinput>make</userinput>
<prompt>%</prompt> <userinput>make install</userinput>
</screen>
      
<para>Since &kwin4; uses <application>autoconf</application> and
<application>automake</application> you should have no trouble compiling
it.</para>

</sect1>
</chapter>

<chapter id="rules">
<title>Rules</title>

<para>The board is separated into three regions.</para>

<para>The <firstterm>game board</firstterm>
is constructed out of 7x6 fields which will be filled from bottom
to top. The fields are marked in the color of the player who made the
current move.
On top of each column a colored arrow shows were the last piece had been
put.
</para>

<para>The <firstterm>status display</firstterm> 
shows which player color starts and which color is
played by whom (player, computer, remote connection). It further shows the
level of the computer opponent, the number of moves done as well as the
computer calculated chance of winning. This chance is calculated only if
the computer opponent makes a move. A positive number means that the player
has an advantage, a negative number means that the computer thinks
he is better.
</para>

<para>The <firstterm>table display</firstterm> shows
the number of won, lost and drawn games is noted for both player.
Also the number of aborted games (Brk) and the sum of games is shown.
</para>

</chapter>

<chapter id="remote-connections">
<title>Remote connections</title>

<para>
It is possible to play the game over a network connection with another
computer. To do so both player on both computers have to select one color
played by a human player and the other by the remote player. Who chooses
which side does not matter. It even does not matter if both choose to play
the same player as this will automatically be interchanged by the game.
</para>

<para>
One of the computers will act as game server. Only this one can start
a new network game. Also all its game data will be transfered to the
client computer. You can force your computer to be server if you do not
supply a hostname in the network dialog. This dialog pops up if you start
a new network game. As a client you enter the hostname of the machine
the server is running. The port needs usually not be changed. But you
can enter nearly any number there.
</para>

<para>
When a network connection is build you are asked to enter a remote
host and a port. The port can usually just been left untouched. But
if you know what you do replace it by another number, which has to
be the same in both player games of course. The hostname should be
the name of the remote host to which you are connecting. Only one
of the two players has to supply a hostname, the other one needs not
to, but can.
</para>

</chapter>

<chapter id="menus">
<title>Menus</title>

<sect1 id="file-menu">
<title>File Menu</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo><keycap>F2</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>File</guimenu><guimenuitem>New Game</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
  <listitem><para>
     Starts a new game. In a network game this option is
     only available for the network server. The network client
     will be automatically started by the server.
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
  <term><menuchoice>
  <shortcut>
<keycombo><keycap>Ctrl</keycap><keycap>W</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>File</guimenu><guimenuitem>End Game</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
  <listitem><para>
     Aborts a running game.
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
  <term><menuchoice><guimenu>File</guimenu><guimenuitem>statistics...</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
  <listitem><para>
     Shows the all time game statistics and allows to reset it.
     This statistic is
     usually saved when the game ended and shows the amount of
     played and won games per player. 
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
  <term><menuchoice>
  <shortcut>
<keycombo><keycap>Ctrl</keycap><keycap>M</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>File</guimenu><guimenuitem>Send Message</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
  <listitem><para>
     If connected to another game in a remote session this
     option allows you to send a message to the remote player.
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
  <term><menuchoice>
  <shortcut>
<keycombo><keycap>Ctrl</keycap><keycap>H</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
  <guimenu>File</guimenu><guimenuitem>Hint</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
  <listitem><para>
      The computer will calculate the best possible move and mark it with a small
      circle on the board.
      How good the move is depends on the level of the computer.
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
  <term><menuchoice>
  <shortcut>
<keycombo><keycap>Ctrl</keycap><keycap>Q</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
  <guimenu>File</guimenu><guimenuitem>Exit</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
  <listitem><para>
     Quits the program.
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect1>
<sect1 id="edit-menu"><title>Edit Menu</title>
<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice><guimenu>Edit</guimenu><guimenuitem>Undo move</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
  <listitem><para>
      Undo the last move. If the previous player is played by the computer
      two moves are taken back so that it is the player's turn again.
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice><guimenu>Edit</guimenu><guimenuitem>Redo move</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
  <listitem><para>
      Replay a move which had been undone.
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect1>
<sect1 id="view-menu"><title>View Menu</title>
<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice><guimenu>View</guimenu><guimenuitem>View statusbar</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
  <listitem><para>
     Shows or hides the statusbar.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect1>
<sect1 id="option-menu"><title>Options Menu</title>
<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
  <term><menuchoice><guimenu>Options</guimenu><guimenuitem>Startplayer</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
  <listitem><para>
      Determines which color resp. player  has the first move in the next game.
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
  <term><menuchoice><guimenu>Options</guimenu><guimenuitem>Yellow played by</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
  <listitem><para>
     Chooses who should play for player 1 (yellow). It can be either
     <guilabel>player</guilabel>, <abbrev>i.e.</abbrev> a local player using the mouse
     as input device, <guilabel>computer</guilabel>, <abbrev>i.e.</abbrev> the computer
     plays this player or <guilabel>remote</guilabel>, <abbrev>i.e.</abbrev> a remote
     connection to another computer will be build.
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
  <term><menuchoice><guimenu>Options</guimenu><guimenuitem>Red played by</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
  <listitem><para>
     Same as <guimenuitem>Player 1 played by</guimenuitem> but for player 2 (red).
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
  <term><menuchoice><guimenu>Options</guimenu><guimenuitem>Level</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
  <listitem><para>
     Selects the level of the computer player.
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
  <term><menuchoice><guimenu>Options</guimenu><guimenuitem>Change names...</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
  <listitem><para>
     Change the names of the players.
  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
  <term><menuchoice><guimenu>Options</guimenu><guimenuitem>Network server</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
  <listitem><para>
If this menu item is selected your computer tries to behave as game network server. This is of course only of any importance if you are doing a network game.    Only the computer acting as server will be able to start a new game
    or transfer a started game to the client's side.
    If both computers want to be server or none of them it is randomly
    selected.  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
  <term><menuchoice><guimenu>Options</guimenu><guimenuitem>Animations</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
  <listitem><para>
    Switches the animations on or off.  </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect1>
<sect1 id="help">
<title>The <guimenuitem>Help</guimenuitem> Menu</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="contents"/><menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo><keycap>F1</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Help</guimenu><guimenuitem>Contents</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para>This invokes the KDE help system starting at the the top of this help file.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="bug-report"/><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Help</guimenu><guimenuitem>Report Bug.</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>If you find an error in the program, or you have an idea on how
to improve the game, clicking this option will let you send an official bug
report to the KDE team.</para>

</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="about-kwin4"/><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Help</guimenu><guimenuitem>About kwin4</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para>This will display version and author information.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="about-kde"/><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Help</guimenu><guimenuitem>About KDE</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para>This displays the KDE version and other basic information.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect1>

</chapter>

<chapter id="credits">
<title>Credits and License</title>

<para>
&kwin4;
</para>
<para>
Program copyright 1995-2000 Martin Heni <email>martin@heni-online.de</email>
</para>
<para>
Documentation copyright 2000 Martin Heni <email>martin@heni-online.de</email>
</para>
<!-- TRANS:CREDIT_FOR_TRANSLATORS -->

&underFDL;
&underGPL;

</chapter>

&documentation.index; 
</book>
<!--
Local Variables:
mode: sgml-mode
sgml-minimize-attributes: nil
sgml-general-insert-case: lower
End:
-->

